docs(splitter): add a11y draggable section with the sample (#2160)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/splitter/accessibility/overview.md

---
title: Accessibility Overview
page_title: Telerik UI for Blazor Splitter Documentation | Splitter Accessibility Overview
description: "Get started with the Telerik UI for Blazor Splitter and learn about its accessibility support for WAI-ARIA, Section 508, and WCAG 2.2."
tags: telerik,blazor,accessibility,wai-aria,wcag,splitter
slug: splitter-accessibility-overview
position: 0
---

# Accessibility Overview

> The UI for Blazor Splitter component is [WCAG 2.2 AA](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22) and [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov) compliant. The component also follows the [WAI-ARIA best practices](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/) for implementing the keyboard navigation for its component [role](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/#roles), and is tested against the popular screen readers.

Reviewer: Ideally, links leading to resources outside of the Blazor doc site need to use the `<a href="" target="_blank">` syntax. See [here ](https://docs.telerik.com/style-guide/cross-references#guidelines) for reference.

# Blazor Splitter Accessibility Example

WCAG 2.2 introduces the ["Dragging Movements"](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/dragging-movements) criterion as an important part of the Operable principle. Its primary goal is to guarantee that any feature reliant on drag actions offers an alternative method that can be executed with a single click, enhancing user accessibility.

> In our illustrative example below, we've showcased the pane resize action, achievable through our [Context Menu]({%slug contextmenu-overview%}). Our goal is to offer a versatile API that allows users to trigger all functions programmatically or externally, meeting diverse accessibility requirements for any applications.

Reviewer: "We" statements are not recommended. See [here ](https://docs.telerik.com/style-guide/basic-rules-and-guidelines#pronouns) for reference. 

Consider an alternative approach:

```suggestion
The illustrative example below shows the pane resize action, achievable through the [Context Menu]({%slug contextmenu-overview%}). Telerik UI for Blazor aims to offer a versatile API that allows users to trigger all functions programmatically or externally, meeting diverse accessibility requirements for any applications.
```
